NFgC (No Fucks Given Crew) is a tribe of like-minded, awakened souls. NFg represents
detachment from a manufactured state of global cognitive dissonance and a
movement towards Oneness, and a truly free world. This requires a great deal of
introspection and self-growth; ultimately, expanding consciousness to a state of
Oneness with all. When you've reached the state of blissful peace (or NFg), you're no
longer controlled by outside influences such as egoistic materialism or other
physiological or psychological needs, but instead you are living from a place of true
authenticity, peace, and love. Accepting what is, living in the now, and loving all things
doesn't require sacrifice (or giving of fucks). If everybody got this... no fucks would ever
be required again. It doesn't mean you give no fucks. Knowing when and how many
fucks to give is the key to inner strength and peace.
*Namafuckingste*
My Tarot Journey 1
"QT Phi" (the golden ratio) ~My expression of of Vortex Based Math by Sherry Allen-Lavoie 2014
Introduction
What is Tarot really ? Where did it come from and what does all of the symbolism mean ? Also , what is
Consciousness ? How did we come to be and what is the meaning of it all? This book begins with my
journey of self-discovery , in search of the answers to these big questions . Not only do I dive into the
metaphysics , but also physics, in attempts to merge it all into one grand vision. The second part of the
book, not only describes my tarot cards, but how they relate to the knowledge I've discovered
Modern science has traditionally ignored metaphysics and spirituality, but recent findings are beginning
to bridge the gap. They are beginning to realize that ancient civilizations like the Vedics already had a
Unified Field Theory, that encompassed all aspects of this reality matrix, which includes consciousness.
They can no longer deny that our ancestors had a deeper understanding about quantum physics and the
cosmos, far better than most modern theories today. However, for the first time in thousands of years ,
we are rediscovering this incredibly complex, dynamic and all encompassing theory of everything. But, it
My Tarot Journey 2

My Tarot Journey 3
The following information holds the key to complete your transformation . All you have to do is be open
to the possibilities. Allow yourself to consider a different reality, one in which you are the star on center
stage , while the universe spins around you, and through, in an infinite embrace. Consider that you are the
universe . And , that you have the power to manifest whatever you desire , just by simply believing it to be
true . Recent research has proven that when you vibrate at a higher frequency , it creates electromagnetic
waves (standing waves ) that move in a discrete , mathematical sequence. And as it does, it changes into
more complex geometrical patterns , gaining mass as matter. Not only is this how consciousness arises,
but it is also how physical matter comes into being. This is how you came to be. Love vibrating at the Phi
frequency creates life. This means, you have the power to transmute the primordial aether into physical
reality, with just a thought. This positively charged energy, not only attracts abundance into your life, but
also deep, long lasting connection with others who vibrate at the same frequency. This is what I intend to
prove to you, but from a scientific point of view.
wasn 't discovered by just one person , countless people are arriving at the same conclusion , but in
different fields of study . For example ,some are studying physiological processes , electromagnetism ,
water , light, nature , sound and music , the universe , and consciousness itself etc . What they 've all
discovered is that there is only one structure at the heart of it all ... a vortex or torus . And, although
consciousness is at the wheel , LOVE is the motor that drives it. Without love , matter would collapse back
into the void . Consciousness is and will always be, the only truth and LOVE is the reason we are alive .
Everything else is an illusion .
In chapter one, I describe how my journey of enlightenment began and where it led me. I've always
known that ancient cultures understood the nature of reality , consciousness and spirituality far better
than we ever could today . They left megalithic structures , texts, art, music and symbolism everywhere
for us to ponder . Therefore , I address this 5000 thousand year old sacred knowledge that can all be
traced back to the Vedics in Chapter 2. In chapter 3 and 4, I introduce you to Sacred Geometry . With the
My Tarot Journey 4

help of Robert Lawlor and Drunvalo Melchizedek , we explore Geometry and Mathematics with their
rational and irrational numbers ; ultimately , revealing the Philospher 's Stone . In chapter 5, I talk about
Marko Rodin 's "Vortex Based Mathematics ", who is the inspiration for it all. He discovered the
mathematically language of the universe and the underpinning structure of reality and consciousness as
a torus . The Torus is at the heart of everything (including the heart ) from the electron , DNA, water ,
the universe , this book , and consciousness itself . I cite help from theorists such as Richard Merick
(Interference Theory ), Buckminster Fuller, Ernest Chladini and Michael Faraday who study sound; recent
research from T. Chi Ming , Mark White on the structure of DNA ; and, other examples of toroidal
structures in Chapter 6. In Chapter 7, we look at different unified theories in physics (String Theory ,
Haramein -Rauscher Atomic Model , and Plasma Cosmology ), as well as how light and color is created in
Chapter 8 (Clay Taylor ). In Chapter 9 , we discover what consciousness is and how it is manifested
thanks to e Penrose -Hameroff's theory of " orchestrated objective reduction " . Chapter 10 , discusses
the "Individuation Process" of Carl Jung and how that relates to tarot. While in Chapter 11, Dan Winter 's
explains how love is the motor that drives consciousness and it is the reason for it all. Finally , we look at
the meaning of the cards , and how to read them in Chapter 12 and 13. In addition , Appendix A gives
examples of readings; Appendix B discusses meditation ; Appendix C discusses stages of awakening ;
and Appendix D are links for videos.
Come, take my hand. Lets explore the nature of reality and consciousness together.
MY TARoT JoURNEY
I guess I've always been "awake ". Even as a small child I could
sense the subtle vibrational differences in people's energy. Later, I
realized that this oversensitivity wasn 't "normal ". So, I became
introverted and shy . In doing so, I found other ways to express
myself , mostly through art. But, instead of pursuing my calling , I
fell into the ego . I was swept up by a relentless stream of the
collective unconsciousness , the "noise " of the physical world . I
started pursuingmaterial gratification, chasing a dreamthat would
makeme someone important one day.
When the world finally stopped spinning , having reached the finish line , I realized that I was still
unhappy . My life felt empty , meaningless . I questioned everything . What was the purpose of it all?
Had I just wasted my life chasing some meaningless piece of paper ? Was all of the sacrifice and
suffering for nothing ? At that moment , I had an awakening . My pursuit became , not about what I
could "have", but about discovering a "truth ", the truth of who "I" really am , where I came from and
my purpose (see Appendix C: Stages of Awakening & My Defining Moments for more details ) . I had
deep philosophical questions that needed answering and I knew thatit wasn't going to come froma
"Awake" By Sherry Allen?Lavoie 2017
textbook. I was however, gratefulto have a university background
because it gave me a foundation of knowledge to draw upon .
Since my interest was in the medical field , the education I
received introduced me to the inner workings of the mind and
body . It is an incredibly complex , fine -tuned machine and
although everything was divided and compartmentalized into
systems, everything worked togetherforthe whole.
My Tarot Journey 5
Little by little , a holographic image began to emerge , pieced together through the structured order of
education . However , it was an incomplete picture. The educational system is very "selective " about the
information they share . We 're taught about how our body is extruded from the primitive streak as a
series of chemical reactions , but they don't explain what the soul is or where it comes from ? Or , how it
all ties together into a Unified Theory of Everything . This is similar to the Big Bang Theory , which explains
that all physical matter spiraled out of a single point , a billion times smaller than the size of a pinhead ,
but they don 't explain why or how? They've omitted some vital information about our understanding of
existence ... Consciousness .


Contemplating the "Big Question" By Sherry Allen-Lavoie 2018
They don 't teach you that it is in fact consciousness , the soul, passing through a star gate, emerging from
source into physical form. This is an incomprehensible concept to understand or explain , so they leave it
out. In doing so, they split the human into two , separating the soul from the body . The same is true on a
global scale . When you separate spirituality from the physical (or science ), it causes global cognitive
dissonance. We sleepwalk through life as split beings, never fully realizing the miracle that we are.
My Tarot Journey 6
My expression of the Reality Matrix or The Flux Field.
By Sherry Allen-Lavoie 2018
Music was also very important during the creative process . It was much easier to fall into the spaces
when I was immersed in sound . Especially , when I was listening to albums like Radiohead , Tool
or Dubstep . When I was lost in a trance , I forgot about who I was and what I was doing . I forgot I was
painting . Then when the album was over , I was astounded to find what I had created . Music is a
corridor to the subconscious . Not only did it crack me open , but it added an extra layer of questions
to what I was experiencing . Where did these artist get their inspiration , what was the secret involved
in creating their music, and what were they trying to say?
It became obvious that other artists must have experienced the same thing while they were creating ,
because I could feel it in their music and I could see it in their art . Small pieces of a grand puzzle was
displayed in plain sight . They knew something . They reeked of an ancient knowledge , hinting at a
larger picture . They wanted to say something, wanted to share their secrets and the things that they
discovered in these mystical realms.
After graduation , I finally had some free time to start painting again. Not only does creativity heal
the soul, but the very act of creating opens the door to cosmic forces. I never fully understood what
that meant until much later. One thing was certain, I had an implicit knowing at my core, that there
was a deeper meaning to my life. And the more I
painted, the closer I came to finding the answers. I
also knew that this hunger for creative inspiration
was the "key" to unlocking the mysteries of reality
and consciousness . When I was "in the zone ", I
was vibrating at a different frequency . It felt like I
was in a different dimension, a different reality.
Small hints of this knowledge , can be seen in famous works of art such the "Vitruvian Man", by
My Tarot Journey 7
Leonardo da Vinci, “The Vitruvian Man"
universal design [1]
, and a
"medical equilibrium " of elements that ensures a stable
structure [2]
.He believed the working ofthe human body to be
analogousforthe workings ofthe universe "
[3]
.
Leonardo da Vinci (1452 - 1519 ). When translated ,means
" the proportions of the human body ",which shows the
correlations of the ideal human proportions , with geometry
described by the ancient Roman architect Vitruvius . All of
the parts of the body reflect a
What could this mean? How can circles and squares be relevant to how the universe is made ? It was a
curious puzzle , one that wouldn 't solved for another ten years . It was 't until I watched a four hour
video by Marko Rodin, called "Vortex Based Mathematics" in 2011, that I finally had answer[4 ]
.
Rodin, introduced me to a different reality, one that wasn't taught in school or fed to us by the media .
This was a universe of sound , geometry and numbers , held fast as a crystalline structure, forming the
basic construct of our reality . This arrangement creates an electromagnetic force field , shaped as a
vortex or torus , that swirls around a central singularity called the number "9". This is our soul, our
spirit . Our very existence is a result of a digital code containing 9 numbers , that hold a specific region
in space on a matrix lattice structure . These numbers have always existed and will continue to exist
for all eternity . This is a difficult concept to wrap your head around , but I promise it will make sense.
Since Rodin's work was so new at the time, there was little information available to draw upon. I knew
that he was right, but I had to prove it to myself . I needed to walk the same path that he walked . So, I
began gathering more information that supported his theory . I knew that Rodin discovered this
information while decoding the ancient Hebrew word for God . Therefore, I began combing through
ancient philosophies and beliefs, looking for a common thread.
My Tarot Journey 8
The information that I compiled over the years wasn't easy to find or understand . It's been wrapped in
a cloak of secrecy , denial , degradation and lies, hidden in plane sight for thousands of years. We just
couldn't see it. We've been blinded by conditioning and control of the ego. There is no one to blame. In
fact ,this is how it was meant to be. This knowledge was meant to be lost and rediscovered countless
times. For this is the nature of our reality. This is is how enlightenment is attained . We must be willing
to push the boundaries of our mind, throw away conventional thinking, in search of answers where only
a few have had the courage to go. We must be willing to walk the path of illumination and face our
fears... alone. Then and only then will we emerge from the fire, reborn from authenticity.
The main thing that I discovered from my research that was certain , is that all ancient cultures
conceived of the idea that inaudible sound vibrations , that created reality . They believed that
numbers , geometry , astronomy , music and consciousness all converged to construct a musical and
arithmetic model of the cosmos , just as Rodin did [5]
. There have been many notable philosophers ,
scientists , mathematicians and theorists who have made remarkable discovers ; however , their
inspiration can all be traced back to one source...the Vedics.
If you look back at some of the most great names in history , like Plato, Pythagoras , Archimedes , etc.,
you will find that Vedics were the original source of information . For example , Plato is credited for the
discovery of Platonic Solids , which is a key concept that describes geometric shapes essential to the
creation of matter [6][7]
, you' ll discover that his work was heavily influenced by Pythagoras [8]
. Looking
further , you'll find that it is widely accepted by most scholars that Pythagoras was heavily influenced by
Orphism [9][10]
, which was an esoteric religion of ancient Greece that can be traced back to the 6th century
BC [11]
. Pythagoras also studied science ,mathematics and religious mysteries in India, Babylonia, Egypt,
Greece, and Gaul, but also in those of Tyre and Syria [9][12]
. Therefore, everything can be traced back to
Vedic texts that are 5000 years old