Sacred Geometry
Geometric patterns (sacred geometry ) have all been described by the ancients as holding the key to
understanding the universe . It is literally the "Philosopher 's Stone ". These patterns give us a visual
representation of unseen forces at work . Only mathematics can reveal the most elusive “secretive
element” of our world, which is energy. It shows us that all matter is governed by sound frequencies
[42]
.
These are the patterns of creation , that form as consciousness emerges from the void to create matter .
Everything in nature use these patterns , from the micro to macro . Each creation has its own unique
vibratory frequency , that interact to create the whole . Geometry , mathematical ratios , harmonics and
proportions are all aspects of one vibratory frequency we call music , light , stars .... consciousness .
Everything is united through sacred geometry , into one grand vision that includes the heart and mind,
spirit, matter, science and spirituality [43]
.
Cell Division Image: KU Leuven – Junbin Qian [44]
Embryonic Cell Division . Image By E.N. Temereva
and V.V. Malakhov / IRD 50 (2007) 57–66 [45]
In general ,sacred geometry follows a natural pattern of dividing ,similar to cell division . One cell divides
into two cells , then to four cells . The Seed of Life is formed from seven circles being placed with six-fold
symmetry . The same vortex 's motion is continued , creating the Egg of Life and the Flower of Life. From
the Flower we get the Tree of Life , which is is especially important symbol in Kabbalistic belief . Also ,
Metatron 's Cube and the 5 Platonic Solid , are found by connecting the centers of each circle in the Fruit
of Life . The Fruit of Life , contains 13 informational systems that explain different aspect of reality , from
the human body to the galaxies..

My Tarot Journey 22
Vesica Piscis Seed of Life Torus Egg of Life
Flower of Life Tree of Life Metatron's Cube Fruit of Life
Even though they 're given different names , these shapes are different features of the same
process , which is the creation of matter through the rise of consciousness . However , in order to
fully appreciate and understand the significance of this statement , we need to draw it ... step by
step. As you do, the secrets of alchemy will be revealed.
How to Draw the Seed of Life
We will begin first with drawing the Seed of Life pattern (shown to the right) ,
which contains the irrational numbers : Pi (?), ?2, ?3, ?5 and Phi (?). (See
Vesica Piscis Ch. 4 formore details). For now , we will use amethod created by
These steps are in fact the "Fools Journey" in tarot, which is the path our soul takes in this lifetime.
Each step issimilar to the different archetypesin tarot . The firststep is Zero Point (orthe Fool), and the
second step, isthe High Priestess , etc. (See The Psyche Ch. 10 for more details ). Eventually , you will
come to understand why these shapes hold the energy they do and the significance of their number
value. Tarot, has no doubt been drawn their wisdom from the ancients.
My Tarot Journey 23
ancient Egypt, which is described by Drunvalo Melchizedek in his book , "The Ancient Secret of the
Flower of Life"
[46]
.
STEP ZERO (0): ~ Zero Point ~ (The Fool)
Initially , we begin by drawing the first circle. Therefore , select the size of your circle on the compass
and place it on the paper . Before you start to draw, take note of the "point" beneath your pencil. This
infinitesimal small point, has no dimension , no time or space . In tarot , this would be the "Zero
Point " or the Fool and the Superconscious .
Marko Rodin calls this the "Primal Point of Unity ". He explains that , Zero is not a number . It
represents the absence and presence of all numbers . It is all things , the void , source , spaces ,
infinity , etc . In Vortex Based Mathematics , this point has little arrows coming out of it called
" Emanations ", which effect the numbers on the surface of a Torus (Number Activation ) in a
particular order (Phasing). (See Vortex Based Math Ch. 5, for more details).
STEP ONE (1): ~ The Circle ~ (Magician/Alchemist)
The First Sphere
1) Create a Space
Imagine yourself in a completely empty and dark room, which represents the Great Void. What is the
fist thing you want to do ? That would be to define your space . This is the innate quality of
consciousness that allows creation to begin. Therefore , spirit, shoots a beam of consciousness into
the Void in six directions , defining space: north, south, east, west, up and down (the x-y-z axes of
geometry ).
2) Enclose the Space
a) Spirit defines it's space by connecting the ends of the projections . This forms a diamond or a
square around (image a).
My Tarot Journey 24
The two back -to-back pyramids form an octahedron .
Therefore , spirit now has an object , so Kinetic energy or
movement is possible . Spirit can move outside the shape
and move around it . Relative movements, is also possible.
Spirit can remain stationary , letting the shape move instead.
It can rotate or wobble or move in all possible ways .
According to Rodin , the One is: The Monad ; Unity ;
Oneness; lack of Duality; the Primal Point; God; Pillar; Pole;
Singularity ; Indivisible ; Spiritual Center, the Non-Manifest; Defining Space by Sherry Allen- Lavoie 2018
STEP TWO: ~ Vesica Piscis ~ (High Priestess)
Second Sphere
A circle or boundary condition , was created when spirit (Magician or the will ) split in 6 directions ,
expanding outwardly . Now that spirit has self-awareness of itself in 360 degrees , it invokes the will to
move to the edge of the of the circle to consider its next step . At this point spirit knows how to do two
things:
b) Then , spirit sends a beam up to the top , from the corners of the square , forming a pyramid.
c) Then, spirit sends a beam down to the bottom point , forming a pyramid below.
the creative power of the " Unmoved Power ", Pythagorean meanings were intellect ; being cause of
truth; order; concord ; moderation; the instant now in time; life; happiness[47]
.
My Tarot Journey 25
(1) Project a little octahedron and create a sphere
(2) Move to whats newly created
spirit ), the triplicities (mind , body , and soul ) , the three domains of earth
( earth ,sea , and sky )
[49]
. Also within the Vesica Piscis is the triangle , the
tetrad ,the square ,the pentacle , and many more polygons ,making the vesica
a true symbolic womb [50]
.
Therefore , it makes a second octahedron , spins it through the three to form another sphere, identical
in size to the first one to create the all powerful Vesica Piscis. This is the moment when the gates to
alternate dimensions crash open , the moment when both hemispheres of the brain are activated , in
order to perceive the rational and irrational !! Hidden within the perimeter of the circle are the secrets
to the universe and creation : Pi (?), ?2, ?3, ?5, Phi (?). (See Vesica Piscis Ch. 4, for more details).
According to Rodn , the Two is: The Dyad ; Duality ; Binary system ; Male /Female ; Negative / Positive;
Yin/Yang; Right hand/Left hand; Spirals; Polarity; Doubling ; Halving; Octaves; Cross; the Star of David;
The Vesica iscis; Order/Chaos; Life/death.
STEP THREE (3): ~ Star Tetrahedron ~ (Empress/Yin)
Third Sphere
The Second Motion Creates the Star Tetrahedron . When spirit is in the center of its second sphere and
projects a new sphere , it produced a relationship between between the three spheres , the basic
geometries of the star tetrahedron , which is one of the most important shapes for life. The Triquetra is
a symbol for female empowerment , is composed of three interlocked Vesica Piscis, marking the
intersection of three circles.This is the leaf-like shape between the three equal diameter circles each
centered on the circumference of the other,
 creating three lobes [48]
. Adding a third circle creates a
triquetra representing the point of creation and the symbol of the sacred Trinity (Father , son, Holy
My Tarot Journey 26
According to Rodin , Three is: The Triad ; Father - Son - Holy Ghost ; Triangle , All Seeing Third Eye , Star
of David ; Bridge (unifying aspect ) between dualities ; The harmonic impact of unity upon dualism ;
creation of Spirit out of Matter ; creation of Active out of Passive ; the literal and symbolic sum of the
preceding two numbers (unity and duality ); in alchemy 1 - active sulfur, 2 - passive salt and 3 - number
pertaining to heaven.
STEP FOUR (4): (Emperor/Yang)
Fourth Sphere
After that pattern is created , there's only one instruction left to follow forever.
Each time a new sphere is formed , more and more information unfolds and
STEP FIVE (5): (Hierophant/High Priest)
Fifth Sphere
Starting from the first motion , exactly one half of the circle is now formed . We
have moved exactly 180 degrees.
more and more creative patterns become visible . That continual movement begins to form a vortex, that
creates different types of three- dimensional forms, one after another, which are the building blocks or
blueprints of the entire Reality.
According to Rodin , Four is: The Tetrad ; Tetraktys ; the Cross ; Square ; Tetrahedron ; Swastika ; Tetrad ;
God (YHWH , BAHA ); Pyramid ; Compass directions ; Cube ; four Seasons ; the 4 Elements (Fire, Air,
Water, Earth); Matter.
According to Rodin, Five is: The Pentad; Man (1+4= Man); 4 limbs + Head = 5; 4 fingers + thumb = 5; 4
cardinal points + center = 5; Pentagram; Five Pointed Star ( apple core); the 5 senses.
My Tarot Journey 27
STEP SIX (6): ~ Union of Dualities ~ (The Lovers)
Sixth Sphere
At this stage the male and female energies are in perfect union.According to
Rodin , Six is: The Head ; Star of David ; integration of trinities; union of Fire
STEP SEVEN (7): ~ The Seed of Life ~ (Chariot)
Seventh Sphere
When you add the seventh circle, a geometric miracle takes place: the last
circle forming a six -petaled flower , which completes the Seed of Life 's
design and the Genesis pattern.
and Water (Man and Woman ); Reconciliation of the Soul ; the first perfect number ; a Circle ;
Universe ; Health; 6 signs of zodiac over Earth and six signs of zodiac under Earth.
According to Rodin, the Seven is: The Heptad ; Perfect Order; union of 3 and 4; the Seven Wonders;
Lucky 7; 7 Celestial Spheres .
The Torus
After 7 spheres have been created (seed of life) a torus (most unique, primal
shape is resulted after being spun around a central point . This is the only
shape that can fold in upon itself . This is the most important shape , the
reason we exist. (See Vortex Based Mathematics, Ch. 5, for more details).
My Tarot Journey 28
Cyamatics -The Univers of harmony by Sherry Allen Lavoie 2018
The Egg of Life (13 Circles)
The Second Rotation
The Egg of Life ,the Second Shape beyond Genesis is also
a symbol composed ofseven circles, but then continues
moving in a rotational patter , until it completes its
second vortex motion containing 7+6=13 circles.
That motion in turn completes a three -dimensional
shape. If you were to erase all the lines , you would see
this pattern (below) . The shape of the Egg of Life is said
to be the shape of a multi -cellular embryo in its first
hours of creation
My Tarot Journey 29
The design can be expanded outward infinitely . Expanding sets have 1, 7, 19, 37, 61, 91, 127, etc. circles ,
and continuing everlarger hexagonalrings of circles[52]
. The number of circles can be expressed as:
n3-(n-1)3 = 3n2-3n+1 = 3n(n-1)+1
The Flower of Life (19 circles)
Next, is the most common form, called the Flower of Life. Its called a flower, because it represents the
cycle of a fruit tree. The fruit tree makes a little flower, which turns into a fruit, that contains a seed,
that falls to the ground to make another tree [46]
. It is a beautiful depiction of the cycle of life ,
contained in one sphere.
The Flower of Life is a hexagonal pattern of 19 circles and 36 partial arcs, enclosed by a larger circle, where
the center of each circle is on the circumference of six surrounding circles of the same diameter [51]
.
The Third Rotation
The reason they inscribe another larger circle, is to conceal another secret , Metatron's Cube.
Metatron's Cube (64 circles)
The next two symbols are obtained by completing the outer circles in the
Flower of Life. The first iteration produces a 2D pattern of Metatron's Cube.
If you give volume to the circles you end up with a 3D cube made of 4x4x4
=64 spheres , the three dimensional Metatron's Cube.
My Tarot Journey 30
The Fruit of Life (13 circles)
The Metatron 's Cube , contains three lines of five tangent circles , known as
the Fruit of Life . When you look carefully at the Flower of Life, you see seven
circles that touch each other in the center , with 6 additional lines on the
outermost ring.
Extracted Metatron's Cube
When you combining Male and Female circles and lines
to Create Metatrons Cube you get the First of thirteen
Informational Systemsin the Fruit of Life.
Hidden within the lines of Metatrons Cube , are all five of the Platonic Solids . By erasing certain lines
and connecting other centers , you get two superimposed : A) Cubes; B) tetrahedrons ; forming a star
tetrahedron; C) octahedrons; and D) pentagonal dodecahedrons, one inside the other.
The Platonic Solids
According to Plato , the four elements are derived from prima materia (first matter ), the starting
ingredient for the creation of the philosopher 's stone . He called these the 5 Platonic solids . The
My Tarot Journey 31
combination of these 5 forms which is called alchemy , is what the universe uses to manifest . These
shapes are ideal, primal models of crystal patterns that occur throughout the world of minerals in
countless variation . Of the five basic elements , four were the physical elements of which the entire
world is composed.
Alchemy is about breaking down the elements and bringing them back together again in a higher
form . Latin expression of " Solve (break down in separate elements ) et Coagula (coming back
together (coagulating)
[53]
:
Earth (Body) dissolved in a solvent becomes Water (Spirit).
Water boiled becomes Air (a moist vapor)
Air (moist vapor) that is further heated turns into Fire (a dry vapor)
Fire condensate becomes Earth as solid material (a stone).
These solids consisted ofthe following geometricalshapes [54,55]
:
1) EARTH: A downward-pointing triangle with a horizontal line (Hexahedron = solid)
2) WATER: A downward-pointing triangle (Icosahedron = liquid).
3) AIR: An upward-pointing triangle with a horizontal line (Octahedron = gas).
4) FIRE: An upward-pointing triangle (Tetrahedron = plasma).
The Four Elements arise out of the Quintessence , The Fifth Element,
The Symbol of The Heart Chakra, the Seal of Solomon [53]
The fifth element is the dodecahedron , whose faces are not triangular , which was taken to represent
the shape of the Universe as a whole , since it most approximates a sphere , which Timaeus noted is
the shape into which God had formed the Universe
[56]
.
My Tarot Journey 32
Characteristics of Platonic Solids:
1) Its faces are all the same size . For example , the cube has a square on every face, and all i the faces
are the same size.
2) The edges are allthe same length.
3)It has only one size ofinterior angles between faces. For example,the cubes angle is 90 degrees.
4)If placed in a sphere, allthe points willtouch the surface.
These are the only five regular polyhedra , that are made from the same equilateral , equiangular
polygons
[57]
.
Tetrahedron Octahedron Hexahedron Dodecahedron Icosahedron
The Archimedean Solids
The 13 Archimedean Solids are extrapolated from the Platonic
Solids , which are composed of two or more different regular
polygons . Both types related to Fibonacci numbers, and 5, 12 and
13 forma perfect right triangle [57]
.
Image of the 13 Archimedean Solids [57]
The left column shows the progression from a hexahedron (cube)
to an octahedron. The right column shows the progression from a
dodecahedron to an icosahedron , as corner are trimmed off and
turned into other regular polygons.
My Tarot Journey 33
The Tree of Life
The Tree of Life is also known as the Kabbalah, which is the organizational
system of the Jewish Kabbalistic tradition or cosmology . It is comprised
of ten interconnected spheres called "sehiroth in Hebrew . It is map of
the universe, the process of creation, the archetypes of the psyche , and
a path to spiritual illumination [58]
.
There are 32 paths on the Tree of Life, corresponding to the 22 letters of
the Hebrew alphabet (which is where Rodin discovered the hidden code of
Vortex Based Mathematics) . The first 10 are the Sefiroth and remaining 22
represent energy channels, joining the Selfroth
[58]
. These are also similar
to the archetypes used in Tarot as shown below.
The Tree of Life (Kabbalah ) Is
Derived from the Flower of
Life By Tokenrock.com [58]
The Image is the different architypes of the Selfiroth 1-10
[58]
1 - The Crown ('Kether' in Hebrew): the Creator Himself.
2 - Wisdom ('Chokhmah'): Divine reality/revelation; the power of Wisdom.
3 - Understanding ('Binah'): repentance/reason; the power of Love.
4 - Mercy ('Chesed'): grace/intention to emulate God; the power of vision.
5 - Strength ('Gevurah'): judgment/determination; the power of Intention.
6 - Beauty ('Tiferet'): symmetry/compassion; the power of Creativity.
7 - Victory ('Netzach'): contemplation/initiative/persistence; power of Eternal Now.
8 - Splendour ('Hod'): surrender/sincerity/steadfastness; the power of Observation.
9 - Yesod ('Foundation'): remembering/knowing; the power of Manifesting.
10 - Kingdom ('Malkuth'): physical presence/vision and illusion; the power of Healing.
My Tarot Journey 34
Merkabah
Mer -ka -ba or Star Tetrahedron , is actually three
words , not one. Mer means "light ", that rotated within
itself . Ka means "spirit ", referring to the human spirit .
And Ba means the " human body "
[59][60]
. It consists of
two interconnected tetrahedrons of light with a
common center , pointing in opposite directions. They
represent the two poles of creation (spirit and matter )
in complete equilibrium , surrounded by counter -
rotating fields of light energy (wheels within wheels ).
The ancient Egyptians believed this symbol transports
the spirit and the body fromone world into another [61]
.
(See Vortex Based Mathematics Ch. 5, formore details).
Leonard da Vinci Vitruvian Man, with a Merkabah
Mandalas
Mandala in Sanskrit means "essence ", and 'a' means "
having '" or " containing ". It could also mean " circlecircumference "' or "completion"
[62]
. in the Rig Veda ,
Mandala is the term for a chapter , a collection of
mantras or verse hymns chanted in Vedic ceremonies
[63]
. The universe was believed to originate from these
sacred sounds . The purpose of the Mandala involves
the process of invocation , or the calling in and
realization of the spiritual force
[64]
. It also represents
different levels of consciousness . (See the Vedics
Ch 2, formore details).