The Ancient Vedics
The Vedics are believed to be the oldest known continuous civilization on earth (c. 1500 – c. 500 B.C. E)
[13]
,
who already had a Unified Theory of Everything , that puts modern theoretical concepts to shame .
They understood the importance of regular polygons with their equilateral triangles , and all of the
secrets encoded in the "squaring of a circle " known as The Philosophers Stone [14]
.
In a paper written by Subhash Kak , called "Concepts of Space , Time , and Consciousness in Ancient
India : Ancient Indian ideas of physics ", he explains that there are two main philosophical systems in
Indian physics and metaphysics , which are Samkhya and Vaiseika [15]
. He describes how these societies
were actually quite advanced ,but have been ignored by mainstream society .
Samkhya , from the 3 rd millennium BC , which means empirical orrelating to numbers [16]
. According to
Kak, it posits 25 basic categories together with 3 constituent qualities , which evolve in different ways
Ancient Knowledge By Sherry Allen-Lavoie
My Tarot Journey 10
Other examples include , the decimal place -value system for integers ; the cyclic method for finding
integer solutions x, y of the “equation of Pell ”; and, approximation methods for the sine and arc tangents
equivalent tomodern Taylorseries expansions
[19]
. The following calculations are taken from Baudhayana
Sulbasutra [20]
:
"The rope which is stretched across the
diagonal of a square produces an area
double the size of the original square".
to create the universe at the microcosmic as well as the macrocosmic levels. While Vaisesika , which
appeared later, is an atomic theory with the non- atomic ground of ether , space , and time . It rest on
four different classes of indestructible atoms which combine to form all matter ; it also considers mind
to be atomic (Kak , 1999 ). These systems presuppose genesis and evolution both at the cosmic and
psychological levels . They also accept cyclic and multiple universes, and centrality of observers. These
are critical advancements that were discovered thousands of years ago .
The Vedics are the first to keep a record of their teaching in a collection of texts called the "Vedas "
[13]
.
The most important of these documents are the Baudhayana Sulbasutra written about 800 BC , which
are a compilation of Vedic Sanskrit texts related to dharma , daily rituals , geometry and mathematics
[17]
. For example , it contains the mathematical results , for the approximation of ?2 (to five decimal
places) , Tuning Theory and the Pythagorean Theorem for an isosceles right triangle [18]
.
1) Verses I, 22-28 Construction of a square with a side of given length
2) Verse I, 48 Theorem on the square of the diagonal
3) Verse I, 50 A square equal to the sum of two unequal squares
4) Verse I, 51 A square equal to the difference of two squares
5) Verse I, 54 Converting a rectangle into a square
6) Verse I, 58 Converting a square into a circle
My Tarot Journey 11
photographer Alberto Ghizzi Panizza
This is similar to the model of the solar system , that was developed by Pythagoras (6th Century B.C.) ,
called the “Music of the Spheres ”, which refers to vibrational systems and inaudible sounds . This model
assumes that the celestial bodies are spheres , that move in circular paths. It is a cosmos filled with crystal
spheres . The Sun and all the stars are moving in a rapid motion , which produces a great sound . The
distances between the planets , produces the same harmonic ratios as the sounds made from a plucked
string . The combination of these sounds produces a celestial “harmony " or "Music of the Spheres "
[24, 25]
.
ll [23]
.
One of the most important patterns in mathematics is the "Vedic Square ",
which is related to the Harmonic Pattern behind the Cycles in our Universe . It
is created by finding the Digital Root of the Multiplication Table of the
numbers 1 to 9. The same principles are used in Pythagorean Additio n
[21]
,
and Vortex Based Mathematics(which is covered in a latersection). Vedic square, Wikipedia,
The Net of Indra , is a metaphor used by an ancient Buddhist named Tu- Shun (557- 640 B.C.E.) [22]
, to
demonstrate the principles of Interdependent Origination . It describesthe way the fabric ofthe universe is
woven together as a vast jeweled net. Each jewel reflects all of the other jewels , which mirrors all of
existence. Each jewel is an individual onto itsself, but yetit cannot exist without the whole. If there is no
7) Verse I, 59 Converting a circle into a square
8) Verse I, 61 The square root of two
My Tarot Journey 12
net , there would be nothing to reflect . Just darkness .
Therefore, each jewel represents an individual consciousness,
that is connected to others and to the collective as a whole .
Whatever happens to one person has a ripple effect that will
reverberate throughout the universe . If you hurt one , you
hurt a
The Vedics believed that the universe is made of sound . They called it Anahata Nada or the "sound of
silence ", which is the statistic sound or “white noise ", that you hear when it's completely silent . To them,
this was the sound of the universe , the primal sound of energy itself [26]
. Koans of Zen asks , " What is the
sound of one hand clapping ?", Anahata Nada isthis sound, because it is omnipresent and is all - pervasive ,
even when nothing is happening to create any othersound".

According to the Vedic tradition , sound vibrations are intelligently directed into the primordial substrate,
which has the ability to manifest space -time and matter . As a result , larger elements are crystallized ,
including living beings . It was also believed that the conscious self possesses the same transcendental
nature as the Godhead . The conscious action of the will has the ability to manifest whatever it desires at
the gross physical level of reality [27]
.
The Vedics also believed that the sound of the words , verses and formulas of the Vedas held an immanent
power . Especially AUM , which is a sacred syllable and is regarded by Hindus as the greatest mantra [28]
.
AUM , out of which emanated the universe and represents the fundamental oneness of all creation . It is
the sound necessary for all other sound to exist[29]
.
The purpose of meditation through the mantra , is to communicate with the deity of that particular
mantra . The deities are internalized as attributes of Ishta devata meditations , whereby they visualize
themselves as the deity or experiencing the darshan (vision ) of the deity . During meditation they identify
with any of the Hindu gods and goddesses , thereby internalizing them to the point where they "become "
the Ishta - deva (or meditati onal deity )
[30][31]
. This is very similar to tarot . The purpose of a reading is to
connect with the energy of the archetypes , represented by the major arcana . Tarot is a way that we can
communicate with our spirit guides , as well as different aspects of our self . Every archetype represent
different aspects of the unconscious psyche . Identify the prominent archetype in your life to clear the
energy or harness it's power. (See Carl Jung's Individuation Process Ch. 10, for more details).

My Tarot Journey 13
Another key feature of Tantra isthe mandala [32]
, which is used as a spiritual tool during meditation ,to
help focus ones attention and create a sacred space [33]
. The basic form of most mandalas is a square with
four gates , containing a circle with a center point . The overall image reveals perfect symmetry and
balan

ce [34]
. The square shape issymbolic of earth, with four directions . The circle is a metaphor for the
heaven since it is a perfect , timeless and infinite . Together they symbolize the relationship between
humankind and the divine [35]
. The mandala , represents "the constant flow and interaction of both
divine , demonic , human and animal energy or impulses in the universe "
[32]
. This is Sacred Geometries
origins, which we will discuss in the next section.



My Tarot Journey 14
In the article by Jahnava Nitai Das , called “The Vedic Conception of Sound in Four Features,” he states
that the in the Vedantic traditions , sound is considered one of the most important principles of
existence . It is both the source of matter and the key to become free from it. One who can thoroughly
understand the four stages of sound as explained in the Vedic texts can utilize this science to become
free from the bondage of matter [35]
.
Das goes on to say that, to be free from bondage , you must pass through several stages . He explains
that sound is understood to have an ultimately nonmaterial source , and is present in four major
metaphysical forms , corresponding to the sound of a mantra . One must pass through these stages
before sound is fully experienced by the listener in perfection:
1) Para represents the transcendental consciousness
2) Pashyanti represents the intellectual consciousness
3) Madhyama represents the mental consciousness
4) Vaikhari represents the physical consciousness
The Rigveda , describes the higher three forms of shabda as hidden in "guha ," or within the self . The
fourth is the external speech, known as laukika bhasha . Shabda -brahman in its purist form is called para
-vak manifests the other three forms of sound.
The following is a brief description of these 4 stages , taken from Das's article [35]
:
1. Para or Transcendental Consciousness:
"A soundless seed, the very possibility of the production of sound"
Also known as "rava-shabda", this transcendental sound is an unvibratory condition or sound, beyond
the perception of the senses , beyond the collective consciousness (or Sanskaras conditioning ), and
beyond the reach of mind and intelligence (avyakta ), only to be realized by grea t souls (parama -
jnanis). There is no distinction between the object and the sound , since sound contains within it all the
qualities ofthe object.
Chakra - lives in the Kundalini
Universal Cosmology - the Lord's tri-pada-vibhuti
Existential Realities - the transcendental (para)
States of Consciousness - the para-vak is manifested through the fourth state of consciousness or
turiya (transcendentalstate )
2. Pashyanti or Intellectual consciousness:
"That which can be seen or visualized"
This isthe finest impulse ofspeech, possessing qualities such as color and form . It is intuitive speech ,
whereby sound is intuitively connected to the object and is beyond defined concepts . It is the gut
feeling or instinct , not yet formed into words . There is near oneness between the word and the
experience described . At this point , language doesn't exist . It is the sound that goes up to the naval
with the bodily air in vibratory form , without a syllable ( varna), yet connected with themind.
Chakra - Manipura – the Navel
Universal Cosmology - Svah
Existential Realities - the causal (karana)
States of Consciousness - The karana -sarira , or causal body , operates in the state of sushupti, or deep
sleep (dreamless state)
My Tarot Journey 15
3. Madhyama or Mental consciousness:
"In between " or "the middle "
This is an intermediate unexpressed state of sound , whose seat is in the heart . It is the emotion that
arises in our heart and mind before we say anything . This is mental speech , which is experienced as
thought, as opposed to external audible speech.
Chakra - Anahat – lives in the Heart
Universal Cosmology - Bhuvah
Existential Realities - the subtle (sukshma)
States of Consciousness - The sukshma -sarira ,subtle or psychic body , operates in the state of svapna
( dreaming state)
Within themadhyama-vak existsthe nature'sjnana-shakti, orthe power of knowledge.
After sound has attained the form of pashyanti -vak , it moves to the heart and joins with the assertive
intelligence. It is also coupled with the syllables a, ka, cha, tha , ta , etc . At this point it manifests itself in
the form of vibratory nada rupa madhyama-vak.
On the levels of madhyama and vaikhari , there is a distinction between the sound and the object . The
object is perceived as something different from the sound , and sound is connected to an object
mostly by convention.
4. Vaikhari or Physical consciousness:
"Audible manifestation of sound"
This is the grossest level of speech , heard through the external senses. When sound comes out
through the mouth as spoken syllables.
Chakra - Vishuddhi – lives in the Throat
Universal Cosmology - Bluh
My Tarot Journey 16
Existential Realities-the physical(sthula)
States of Consciousness - The sthula sarira , or physical body , operates in the state of jagrat
(wakefulstate)
Within the vaikhari-vak existsthe nature's kriya-shakti, or power of action.
d
[37]
.
Each level corresponds to different levels of existence , and one 's experience of that sound depends
upon their level consciousness . The seers who can comprehend the four stages of sound are known as
manishis or the "wise "
[36]
. The Hatha Yoga Pradipika , is a fifteenth - century sanskrit text , written by
Sv?mi . Sv?tm?r?ma , which says that when a yogi reaches the supreme state , the cosmic sound can be
hear
Sound Manifested by Sherry Allen Lavoie 2017
My Tarot Journey 17
Neolithic Period: "Carved Stone Sphere's"
It is also worth mentioning that hundreds of "carved stone spheres ", measuring three inches in diameter ,
were discovered fromScotland , dating to the LateNeolithic period (c. 3000 - 2500 BC)
[38]
. Although they are
made of various stones (ranging from sandstone to granite ),they are similar in size and are decorated with
evenly -spaced patterns of circular bosses or knobs around the surface ofthe sphere . Some carved balls are
more skilfullymanufactured than others ,but allshow an appreciation forsymmetry in the design [39]
.
My Tarot Journey 18
Many theories speculates that the carvers were experimenting with solid geometry , and were expressing
the three -dimensional qualities of the Platonic Solids . Some are carved with lines corresponding to the
edges of regular polyhedra shown in the image above . Therefore , the Platonic Solids were discovered
over one thousand years before Plato described them in his Timeaus.
So as you can see , our ancestors gave considerable attention to the study of musical harmony in relation
to mathematics and geometry . Although this wisdom has been hidden from us to conceal our true
nature , it's been rediscovered time and time again , by great mathematicians and philosophers such as
Pythagoras , Plato , Archimedes , Leonardo da Vinci, and many more . All of whom take what they've
learned from their forefathers and build on it, adding their own pieces of the puzzle to the mix.
Prison of the Mind by Sherry Allen-Lavoie 2017
Make no mistake about it. This knowledge has been kept hidden from us, and at one point it was
dangerous to talk about it. According to Richard Merrick , who wrote in his book , "Interference : A
Grand Scientific Musical Theory ", he states that the "tritone became a model for all canon law, to
prosecute paganism , during the 11th ?13th centuries ". They used it as, "ethical justification behind
the Inquisition in its mission to eradicate Pythagoreanism , Platoism , Mithraism , Egyptian
Hermeticism , Zoroastrianism , the Hebrew Kabbalah and similar Gnostic teachings ". And that they ,
" mounted a Great Crusade against the very cradle of civilization – the people who had discovered and
preserved the ancient knowledge of harmonics . The Church knew that eradicating paganism simply
could not be done without first eradicating free harmony in music"
[40]
.
In addition to astronomy , the study of number properties and harmonic geometries such as the
pentagram and hexagram , were also cast out. They were considered "evil pagan symbols and linked
with satanic worship , witchcraft and occult ritual ". If anyone was caught , they were threatened , and
My Tarot Journey 19
exiled or executed . Also , "the Knights Templar " , which were the primary keepers of the Babylonian
Egyptian temple mysteries , were hunted down and murdered by the Church (on Friday, October 13,
1307 ). Within a few hundred years , they managed to crush most competing pagan religions across
Europe , leaving only a few small groups that meet in secret[40]
.
Regardless of "who did what to whom ", the purpose of pointing this out is to show how important
this knowledge is. People were willing to commit unspeakable acts of violence to keep it hidden. You
can still feel this negative vibration resonating throughout our lives. You can feel it when you visit an
old church , ancient sites, institution , museum or library , etc .The signs and symbols are everywhere ,
but no one speaks about it. This reminds me of a quote from the movie , "The Matrix "(Andy and Larry
Wachowski , 1999 ), because it is a perfect metaphor for the secrecy, control and illusion that keeps us
prisoners:
“The Matrix is everywhere . Itis all around us. Even now , in this very room. You can see it when you
look out your window or when you turn on your television . You can feel it when you go t work ...
when you go to church... when you pay your taxes . It is the world
that has been pulled over your eyes to blind you from the truth .
Neo : What truth ? Morpheus: That you are a slave , Neo . Like
everyone else you were born into bondage . Into a prison that you
cannot taste or see or touch . A prison for your mind .”?
Morpheus The Matrix
This quote is based on the, " The Allegory of the Cave" by Plato,
which tells a story of men, who have been chained in a dark cave
since childhood . They believe they are trapped, yet there is an
opening behind them . They sit facing the back of the cave , watching their projections from a fire on
the wall , and listening to their distorted voices echoing through the cave . Eventually , one of the
My Tarot Journey 20
captives escapes , becoming "blinded by the light". He realizes that what he had experienced wasn't
real. He wants to return to the cave to free the others , by sharing his discovery , but they don 't
believe him . In fact , they 're willing to defend their perceptions to the death [41]
.
What we perceive to be the truth, is in fact an illusion . We're not prisoners of an archaic past. We' re
free to grow , expand and evolve ! Especially with today 's technological breakthroughs and
interconnectedness of the internet , which allows us to gather information at lightening speed and
form connections all over the world . We can meet new friends in cyberspace , regardless of what
language you speak or what you look like . The physical reality is no longer as important , since it is the
heart and soul that we are connecting with.
