The Vesica Piscis/Philosopher's Stone & Irrational Numbers
Vesica Pisces - Union of Dualities by Sherry Allen-Lavoie 2018

"Geometry attempts to recapture the orderly movement from an infinite formlessness to an endless
interconnected array of forms, and in recreating this mysterious passage from One to Two, it renders
it symbolically visible". ~ Robert Lawlor [66]
When consciousness added the second sphere , something very important occurred . Not only did it
create space and an arrow of time, but it is the moment when all physical matter had the ability to
take form. To the ancients , the Vesica Piscis, is a mythological gateway to the spirit world , that
contains all of the secrets of the universe. It is the womb of the Sacred Feminine, or a star gate for life
to emerge into the physical. Also known as the Philosopher's Stone, the Vesica Piscis is a symbol for
an alchemical process of transmuting sound into physical matter (Platonic Solids, which includes a
series of roots and proportions: Pi (?), ?2, ?3, ?5 and Phi (?)
My Tarot Journey 36
The Vsica Piscis is a lens, formed by the mathematical interlocking of two circles with the same radius .
Each disk intersects in such a way that the center of each disk lies on the perimeter of the other [67]
. The
addition of a second sphere represents duality , the division of male and female energies , god and
goddess . Each circle represents a "spontaneous dimensional expansion " (awareness ofself ) out of its
originalstate oftheOneness, asrepresented by the original circle . Asthe observer observes or becomes
The Philosopher 's Stone, has theoretical roots stemming from Greek philosopher Plato who wrote the
outline for the stones creation in Timaeus [70][71]
. The Philosopher ’s Stone , is an alchemical process of
transmuting ,metal into gold , literally and figuratively .Not only doesit describe the process of finding the
square root of a circle,to create matter (5 Platonic Solids), but itis also describing the processthat the soul
goesthrough to reach enlightenment.
Emblem XXI. "Make of the man and woman a Circle , of
that a Quadrangle , of this a Triangle , of the same a
Circle and you will have the Stone of the Philosophers ".
~ Michael Maier
“aware ” of itself , it establishes the permanent arrow of time created by
the polarity of the observer and the observed [68]
. When the two spheres
are overlapped , this is the point of Creation [69]
. This is the beginning of
the alchemical process to create the Philosopher's Stone.
In Michael Maier ’s (1568 –1622 ) called "Atalanta
Fugiens ", which is about a alchemical engravings
[72]
, there is picture of a man holding a compass and
pointing to the radius of a circle , which looks very
similar to Leonardo da Vinci 's "Vitruvian Man ".
However , a man and a woman are also placed inside
of a square and circle , to show that the
"squaring the circle " is an important alchemical key
[73]
. The man is the square and feminine the circle ,
join in a geometrical union of dualities to create life.
My Tarot Journey 37
Within the Vesica Piscesrealms irrational numbers that arise are the golden ratio ?, and all square roots
of natural numbers, otherthan of perfectsquares
[75 ][76]
. The primary proportionalroots, i.e., ?2, ?3, and
?5, as well as the golden mean , all of which are found within the realm of the “ Relatively Absolute ”.
When the drawing isfurtherintersected by straightlines, an equilateraltriangle , a hexagon , a pentagon ,
a square and so on, have emerged . The sacred mean or Phi (?), is one of the keystones of sacred
geometry , which isrelated to the “Fibonacci sequence ”, a spiraling numerical seriesfound frequently in
the natural world
[77][78][79]
.
When we add the masculine energy (straight lines or square ) to the feminine energy (curved lines or
circle ), we discover 3 irrational numbers , that continue infinitely behind the decimal point without a
repetitive pattern . These numbers are, according to Pythagoras , fundamental to the creation of all
forms[74]
.
What you will find, is that the circumference of a circle is slightly more than three times as long as
its diameter, which is equal to:
Pi (?) = 3.14159265358979323846264338327950288419716939937511…
This is the generative number Pi (?), the original transcendental and irrational number . As an
" irrational number ", ? cannot be expressed as a common fraction or ratio of two integers (its decimal
representation never ends and neversettlesinto a permanently repeating pattern)
[81]
. " Transcendence "
of ?, implies that it isimpossible to solve the ancient challenge ofsquaring the circle with a compass and
straightedge.
Squaring of a Circle or Pi (?)
The first irrational number to emerge is Pi (?)
The calculation of Pi(?), which isthe ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter of a square
[80]
:
Pi (?) = C/d
My Tarot Journey 38
Perceiving the Irrational by Sherry Allen-Lavoie 2018
In a book written by Robert Lawlor , called "Sacred Geometry , Philosophy and Practice ", he explained
that : "The irrational functions are a key opening a door to a higher reality of Number . Within the
concept of Number there is a definite , finite , particularizing power and also a universal synthesizing
power . One may be called the exoteric or external aspect of number , the other the esoteric or inner ,
functional aspect" [82]
:
1) The exoteric , enumerative aspect of Number is apprehended by the "left " hemisphere , to grasp
temporal , sequential organization . It has the visual , analytic capacity , to absorb spatial and
simultaneous orders . This "emotive , sound -sensing faculty is usually associated with subjective ,
emotional , aesthetic or spiritual experiences ". It's also involved when the reason perceives invariant
relationship.
2) The esoteric , functional aspect of Number , is apprehended by the 'right hemisphere ' faculty .
Intellectual capacity , "recognizes patterns in space , or wholes of any kind . It can perceive opposites
in simultaneity and grasp functions which to the analytic faculty appear irrational ".
My Tarot Journey 39
In addition , the practice of Geometry , while using the analytic faculty , also uses the audial , intuitive
aspect of mind. For example , before we begin to draw, one experiences the sense of growth that
results when the mind looks at the image of the square with its diagonal which forms the side of a
second square. Quoting Lawlor:
"This is an unreasoned certainty absorbed by the mind from the actual experience of executing the
drawing . The logic is contained within the lines on paper , which cannot be drawn in any other way".
With compasses and straight -edge , we enter the two- dimensional world of the representation of
form. A link is forged between the most concrete (form and measure ) and the most abstract realms of
thought . By seeking the invariable relationships by which forms are governed and interconnected we
bring ourselves into resonance with universal order . By re- enacting the genesis of these forms we seek
to know the principles of evolution . And by thus raising our own patterns of thought to these
archetypal levels , we invite the force of these levels to penetrate our mind and thinking . Our intuition
is enlivened , and perhaps , as Plato says, the soul's eye might be purified and kindled afresh 'for it is by
it alone that we contemplate the truth '. t -c--, -... - 'V" .% -. ' Numbers are the sources of form and
energy in the world . They are dynamic and active even among themselves . . . almost human in their
capacity for mutual influence .' They are in fact the very elements of nature "
[82]
.
Looking at this on a two dimensional plane: If we take a circle and a square and give the value 1 to the
diameter of the circle and also to the side of the square , then the diagonal of the square will always be
an "incommensurable ", "irrational " number , that can be carried out to an infinite number of
decimal places without ever arriving at a resolution [83]
. "The diagonal of the square , this decimal is
1. 4142 .. . and is called the square root of 2, or ?2. The circle , has a diameterthe value I,the circumference
will also always be ofthe incommensurable type Pi(?), 3. 14159. . . .
goal
[82]
.
This innate intellectual quality is what the Greeks called Pure Reason , what in India was called the
' heart?mind ', and the ancient Egyptians called the Intelligence of the Heart. To achieve this quality of
understanding was life's implicit
My Tarot Journey 40
The principle remains the same in the inversion:
"If we give the fixed , rational value of 1 to the diagonal of the square and to the circumference of the
circle , then the side of the square and the radius of the circle will become of the incommensurable
' irrational ' type: 1/ ?2 and l/?. Numerically we can never know exactly the diagonal of the square nor
the circumference of the circle".
Lawlor goes on to say that , "the diagonal and the circumference , when considered in the context of
formal relationship ( diagonal to side; circumference to diameter ),are absolutely knowable , selfevident realities : 1: ? 2 and 1:/?. Number is considered as a formal relationship , and this type of
numerical relationship is called a function.The square root of 2 is the functional number of a square. Pi
is the functional number of a circle "
[83]
.
Trinity of Transformative Roots ?2, ?3, ?5 & f Phi (?)
According to Lawlor , these roots are considered the trinity of generative principles , which are
metaphors for the suprarational (irrational function ), or supernatural , moment in three
transformational processes : the Generative , symbolized by ?2; the Formative , symbolized ?3; and
the Regenerative , symbolized by ?5, and its related function of Phi (?), the Golden Mean . The
intelligent design of Phi (?), which is related to ?5, gives birth to the trinity of roots , that describes
the penology (5 points) of the polyhedra [84]
.
The appearance of the three sacred roots is summarized in this
diagram. These three root relationships is all that is needed to
form the five regular Platonic solids , which are the basis for
all volumetric forms . These are also all that is required
for the division of the octave into musical scales [84]
.
My Tarot Journey 41
The Square Root of Two ?2
The square root of 2, or the (1/2)th power of 2, written in
mathematics as ?2 or 21?2, is the positive algebraic number ,
when multiplied by itself , gives the number 2 . Geometrically
the square root of 2 is the length of a diagonal across a square
with sides of one unit of length ; this follows from the
Pythagorean theorem[85]
.
The first number that we can find in the Vesica Piscis is ?2
The square symbolizes unity in our physical universe, ?2 symbolizes duality. It also embodies a
profound principle of the "whole being more than the sum of its parts".
The Mandorla or the Square Root of Three ?3
vulva [88]
. The mathematical ratio of the height of the Vesica Piscisto the
width acrossits centeristhe square root of 3
[89]
.
The in the OEIS gives the numerical value for the square root of two truncated to 65 decimal
places
[86]
:
?2: 1.41421356237309504880168872420969807856967187537694807317667973799...
When you square the circle , unity is now represented by the square , which symbolizes a
transformation of energy into matter, from the circle to the 3D square (N, S, E, W)
[87]
.
The second number to arise from the Vesica Piscis is ?3, also called the Mandorla. It
is the center part of the Vesica Piscis that forms a lens, from intersection of two
disks. In Sanskrit The Mandorla means womb , “Yoni ” or “Holy passage ”, which
looks like a
My Tarot Journey 42
The square root of 3 isthe positive real numberthat, when multiplied by itself, givesthe number 3. ?3 is
the length of the diagonal of a cube , defining its 3D space . The proportions of the Mandorla are
described by Pythagoras are 265:153,shown below [90]
.
The in the OEIS gives the numerical value for the square root of three , for the first sixty digits of its
decimal expansion are [91]
:
1.73205080756887729352744634150587236694280525381038062805580…
As ofDecember 2013, its numerical value in decimal has been computed to atleastten billion digits [92]
.
The square root of Five (?5):
The square root of five isthe positive real numberthat, whenmultiplied by itself, givesthe prime
number 5
[93]
. Itis an irrational algebraic number
[94]
.
The OEIS gives the numerical value for the square root of five , for the first sixty digits of its
decimal expansion are [95]
:
?5 = 2.23606797749978969640917366873127623544061835961152572427089…
As of December 2013, its numerical value in decimal has been computed to at least ten billion
digits [96]
.
The number ?5 can be algebraically and geometrically related to ?2 and ?3, as it is the length of
the hypotenuse of a righttriangle with cathetimeasuring ?2 and ?3 (Pythagorean theorem)
[97]
.
Square Root of Five (?5), The Golden Ratio orPhi (?) & Fibonacci Sequence
My Tarot Journey 43
[100]
.
"Right triangles of such proportions can be found inside a cube. The sides of any
triangle defined by the center point of a cube, one of its vertices , and the middle
point of a side located on one the faces containing that vertex and opposite to it,
are in the ratio ?2:?3:?5" (diagram a)
[97] [98]
. The successive constructions of the
root proportions in proportional rectangles based on the diagonal of the square
[98]
. The root proportions based on the square are shown in diagram b
diagram a
diagram c:
The proportional rectangles (proportional roots) are based on the geometry of the polygons shown in
diagram c
[100] [101] [102]
:
1) the square ?2
2) the hexagon ?3
3) the pentagon, from (?5 gives us Phi which equals to :
[(?5+1)/2] = 1.61803
As the equilateral triangle unfolds outwards it successively
defines the sides of the square (4), the pentagon (5),the
hexagon (6), the octagon (8), the decagon (10) and the
dodecagon (12), called the Platonic Solids[100]
.
TheGolden Ratio Phi(?):
Loai Dabbour, defines the golden mean proportion as [100]
:
" a proportional system whereby two elements are related to each other by a set proportion:
a/b=(a+b)/a.
It isthis unique point that divides the single line into segments with qualitative proportions . The golden
mean proportion, Phi(?): a/b=(a+b)/A=1.61803
diagram b
My Tarot Journey 44
The mathematics ofthe Golden Ratio Proportion or Phi is also related to the Fibonacci Sequence, which is
a numerical series found frequently in the natural world
[104]
. It simply follows the rule that the next
number is the sum of the previous two numbers , as follows :
Fibonacci sequence: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144, 233...
The golden ratio is the arithmetic mean of 1 and ?5
[97 ] [103 ]
. The algebraic
relationship between ?5,the golden ratio and the conjugate of the golden ratio
(?= –1/?= 1 ??)is expressed in the following formula:
?= (?5+1/2) (or 1:1.618)
If we divide any number in the Fibonacci sequence by the one before it, the answer is always close to
the value of the golden ratio. As the sequence grows, the number will infinitely get closer to Phi, but
never reach it. In this way, the Fibonacci series is a way to grow the golden ratio from simple whole
numbers, just as it occurs in the proportional chambers of a Nautilus pompilius
[104][105]
.
The following diagram , is the Spiral of Theodorus is composed of
contiguous right triangles with hypotenuse lengths equal ?2, ?3,
?4, …, ?17; to give a continuous curve. Additional triangles cause
the diagram to overlap [106]
.
The key to human life , is how closely the perimeter of the square and the circumference of the circle
approximate the phi ratio. Drunvalo Melchizedek , explains a good way to visualize this relationship in
his book, "The Ancient Secret of the Flower of Life"
[107]
.He saysto draw nine concentric circles and put
My Tarot Journey 45
Concentric circles and squares
The darker circles and
squares are the pairs that
approximate the phi ratio .
(One grid unit equals one
radius of the center circle or
one -half side of the square
thatsurroundsit).
a square around each one . This way you can see
how the male energy interacts with the female
energy.
Finding the Phi Ratio:
- Looking at the innermost square, no circles cross it.
- The same is true for the second square.
- The third square begins to penetrate the fourth
circle , but not yet a phi ratio .
- The fourth square penetrates the fifth circle in a near
-perfect phi ratio.
- It then comes out of phi ratio again on the fifth and
sixth squares.
My Tarot Journey 46
(a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g)
? Then, the seventh square penetrates the ninth circle again in a near?perfect phi ratio. This time
two circles beyond, and closerto theGolden Mean,than the first one.
We can measure this by assigning one unit for the radius of the innermost circle. Therefore, the first
circle and first square are two radii across . If the circumference of the circle , equals or approximates
the perimeter of the square, we have the phi ratio. To determine the perimeter of the fourth square,
which is 8 radii across , multiply it by 4 which equals 32 radii . The fifth circle 's circumference is
calculated to be 31.40 radii and the square 's perimeter is exactly 32. It's close , but the circle is
slightly smaller. This represents the first time that human consciousness becomes self-aware.
The seventh square and ninth circle , gives us 56 radii for the perimeter and 5652 for the diameter .
Therefore , the circle is slightly larger this time. You'll see the same pattern : slightly larger, slightly
smaller , getting closer the perfection the Phi ratio, like we see in the Fibonacci sequence.
My Tarot Journey 47
Each successive ratio alternates or oscillates around ?, demonstrated in part by 13:8 and 34:21 being
greater than ? while 21:13 is less . Strangely , the presence of this amazing odd?even alternating
pattern throughout nature and thought to be the best way for leaves to collect sunlight or the most
efficient way for organisms to grow themselves stepwise.
The golden ratio is the key behind everything in the universe , which follows the infinite spiral of the
Fibonacci sequence.This spiral can be seen everywhere in nature , music, and the arts. It is is related to
how organically everything unfolds in the universe as a Torus. (See Vortex Based Mathematics Ch.
5, for more details).